I won't read the lecture I will
introduce a speaker who most of you know
some quite well is Al McCoy who joined
our faculty here three years ago in the
fall of 89 after teaching at the
University of New South Wales in
Australia for 11 years he has his PhD in
history from Yale before that an MA in
Southeast Asian Studies from Berkeley
and an undergraduate degree BA from
Columbia I won't bother to list the
numerous grants and awards that he's
received but I should would like to
point out that his writings both on the
drug trafficking and the drug problems
worldwide and on the Philippines have
won Book Awards among others his
publications include the politics of
heroin in Southeast Asia which splashed
onto the front page of New York Times
Book Review in 1972 that has recently
been revised and published just last
year as politics of the politics of
heroin with a slightly wider scope than
the original book he also wrote priests
on trial and edited Southeast Asia under
the Japanese occupation Philippine
social history and Laos war and
revolution and co-wrote with Alfredo
roasted rotisserie look Philippine
cartoons political caricatures of the
American ear in 1800 1941 so I'm sure
most of you are well aware of Professor
McCoy's distinguished reputation so I'll
simply turn it over to him and he will
tell us about heroin as a global
commodity the Southeast Asian opium
trade 1773 the 1991
no you could give the lecture let me
offer a lecture in several parts first
of all an introduction which is personal
in nature then one which is conceptual
and finally into a substantive
discussion of the topic heroin is a
global commodity a commodity a Southeast
Asian opium trade the first part my
personal introduction during the quarter
century that I have been studying the
Philippines I have taken three short
sabbaticals to do drugs my drug of
choice has been Southeast Asian heroin
my first such sabbatical came in 1971
when lured by the sound of distant
gunfire I took a semesters leave from
Yale University Graduate School to
follow the heroin trail from the
battlefields of South Vietnam to the
opium hills of northern Laos the product
of that inquiry publishes the politics
of heroin in Southeast Asia was more
expose than explanation but there was a
reason at the time when I did this
research at a time when Southeast Asia
was already the world's leading producer
of raw illicit opium Americans official
and academic knew nearly nothing about
this region's drug trade let me cite one
example of official ignorance in March
1965 the US Bureau of Narcotics the
antecedent of our current DEA or Drug
Enforcement Administration compiled a
list of 246 international drug
traffickers of the 246 only two were
from Southeast Asia both were minor
Corsican figures only two figures from a
region that was the world's major
producer of illicit drugs official
ignorance
I think clearly demonstrated the book's
publication in August 1972 coincided
with then President Richard Nixon's
declaration of war on drugs the first of
three such American drug wars not
surprisingly my charges of US government
complicity in the Southeast Asian heroin
trade earned me a taste of the full
force of the American state during my
reach
field research in the opium villages of
northern Laos CIA mercenaries ambushed
me with automatic weapons
once I submitted my manuscript to my
publisher Harper & row the deputy
director for plans a euphemism for
covered operations of the CIA mr. cord
Meyer jr. paid a personal call upon my
publisher mr. Cass Canfield senior to
pressure him to suppress my book failing
that in that effort the CIA mounted a
sustained campaign to discredit the book
CIA operatives in Laos and Vietnam
pressed my sources to recant the
director of the CIA public attacked my
book the CIA privately briefed Congress
to discredit my charges following the
book's publication the IRS audited my
income taxes then hgw reviewed my
graduate fellowship and the FBI tap my
telephone there are only a few threads
in the social fabric of a graduate
student and the Nixon administration
tugged at every one of mine coming close
rather close to unraveling the thin
tapestry of my life after completing my
dissertation at Yale and unable to find
a job in the United States for reasons
that I've never been able to fully
fathom I took up a postdoctoral
fellowship at the Austrian National
University my arrival at Canberra in
1977 coincided with the first surge of
Southeast Asian heroin into Australia a
trend that aroused deep concern in that
country in response I took my second
sabbatical from Philippine history to
write a book titled drug traffic
narcotics and organized crime in
Australia the country's first academic
inquiry into either topic finally my
third sabbatical in June 1989 I returned
to America to take up an appointment at
Madison and within three months found
myself watching President Bush's
declaration of his war on drugs
you remember that White House press
conference in which President Bush held
up a crack bag that was purchased at
Lafayette Park right in front of the
White House that turned out wasn't
actually bought there it was bought
somewhere else
what kind of metaphor for how things
have gone in that drug war since the
drug trades essential dynamics had not
changed in the 20 years since I'd first
publish my book I decided to revise it
making explicit analytical themes
implicit in the first edition and let me
share then those insights these
latter-day insights into this problem
with you today let me begin then with a
conceptual introduction and let me start
with an event historians like events in
1989 Southeast Asia achieved the
distinction of becoming the world's
largest producer of raw opium and the
major source of America's illicit heroin
supply according to the US State
Department's 1989 report on
International Narcotics Control
Southeast Asia's Golden Triangle region
where the highlands of Burma Thailand
and Laos converged produced three
thousand metric tons of raw opium
equivalent to 64% of the world's total
illicit supply in February 1991 the US
Drug Enforcement ministration announced
that Southeast Asia share of the US
heroin market rose sharply from 18% in
1987 to 45% that year making the Golden
Triangle America's number-one heroin
supplier between 1984 and 1990 Southeast
Asia share of the New York City Herald
market jumped from 5 to 80 percent as
heroin surgeon to New York in
unprecedented quantities in the early
1990s the city's wholesale price per
kilo dropped from $100,000 to $60,000
creating a new clientele for this pure
evil pure smokeable drug thus what
american enforcement effort experts had
long feared had finally come to pass to
wit the globe's great opium reserve in
northern burma had merged with the
world's premier heroin market new york
city producing a sudden resurgence in
american heroin abuse how can we explain
Southeast Asia's conquest of the global
heroin market although Western observers
have long assumed an axiomatic and a
historical cultural equation between
Asia and opium Southeast Asia's
emergence as the world's premier opium
producer is a very recent development
the final stage in an obscure historical
process that began more than two
centuries ago this process and the
answer to our question
explains heroines little-understood
character heroine is I'm going to argue
a global commodity and in arguing such I
think I'll be conducting a fundamental
redefinition of how this drug is
perceived in the United States just
because heroin has been a part of
American life as in legal and illegal
drug for nearly a hundred years will we
commemorate the centenary will bear
sponsor advertisements I don't think so
but anyway we're coming hard upon the
centenary of this unique aspect of our
American life just because it's been a
part of our life for so long does not
necessarily mean that we really
understand in a fundamental sense what
heroin is over the past 200 years opium
and it's derivative heroin have emerged
as major global commodities with
production systems and a political
economy similar in scale and kind to
other major stimulants in the
commodities trade to wit coffee and tea
before we go further I think we need to
understand that commodities are
something that we may not fully grasp we
need to give thickness to this thin word
that floats so lightly in the air that
sits so two-dimensional upon my page
let's opera already made definition here
commodities are not mere trade goods
they are the building blocks of modern
material life their production is
central to third-world survival and
their consumption is integral to the
fabric of first world lifestyles let me
now try and give thickness to those thin
words throughout their long careers two
of America's most distinguished
anthropologists Sidney Mintz and Eric
wolf have taught us that the modern
commerce and commodities involves much
more than mere economic exchange
concluding his study of sugar as a
commodity titled sweetness and power
Sidney Mintz comments and I quote the
first sweetened cup of hot tea to be
drunk by an English worker was a
significant historical event because it
prefigured the transformation of an
entire society a total remaking of its
economic and social basis in some mints
seems to be telling us that these
commodities sugar and tea
were among others the very vehicles that
transformed British society carrying
England and with it the world forward
into modernity indeed from the 18th
century onwards tea and opium were a
part of an expanding commerce between
Asia and the Atlantic nations keeping in
mind our definition of what heroin as a
commodity or open as commodity might be
let us look at some statistics to gain a
sense of Opium's character as a
commodity
let's turn first to indices of
third-world production and consumption
at centuries term by 1906 China produced
35,000 tonnes of raw opium to me that
sings of a commodity trade well for
those of you that don't deal with these
statistics what do these numbers mean we
can put that in the back of our
Volkswagen we require a container vessel
35,000 tons these numbers num what do
they mean well 35,000 tonnes is larger
than Japan's tea crop of 31,000 tons it
approaches the bulk of Columbia's coffee
crop of that year of 55,000 tons it's
over a third of the size of China's own
premier commodity tea at 90,000 tons
that same year 1906 China had 13 and a
half million opium addicts equivalent to
27% of its adult male population so it
centuries turned one in four Chinese
adult males was an opium addict let's
look at some anecdotal evidence from the
first world by the 1890s the
distribution of opiates and cocoa
products in the first world had become
the basis of a thriving pharmaceutical
industry producing widespread narcotics
abuse in 1898 the Bayer company of
Germany coined the phrase heroin a trade
name to market the drug known chemically
as diacetyl morphine a year before Bayer
kormt coined an equally popular and
successful trade name for another very
important painkiller that it called
aspirin during the 1890s parke-davis
company of Detroit a major American
pharmaceutical manufacturer became a
cocaine specialist with a lucrative line
of coca cordials coca cigarettes coca
tonics and coca pills during the latter
half of the 19th century
England's consumption of tea per capita
increased three times and its
consumption of opiate based patent
medicines increased seven times in the
same period US coffee consumption
increased three times and US opium
consumption per capita increased four
times during the 1890s moreover the
estimated number of US heroin habituate
and opiate addicts as a proportion of
population reached an historic peak
never before he never never since equal
although we can debate causality which
is an area outside my expertise the
consequence of this historic change
seems beyond a dispute over the past two
centuries opium had thus become a major
global commodity leaking in the cities
of Asia in the West - a Highland opium
zone stretching for some 5,000 miles
across the southern mountain rim of Asia
from Turkey to Thailand heroines
characters a commodity explains the
reasons underlying two key aspects of
our contemporary drug problem which are
to say CIA protection of the drug lords
and the repeated failure of America's
attempt of prohibition of drug
consumption through its wars on drugs to
put it in two words heroines character
as a commodity is illuminated by two
factors prohibition and protection let's
look at those factors the first
prohibition since the start of the
narcotics prohibition in the 1920s both
in the United States and in the world
most attempts at interdiction have not
only failed to eradicate this global
commodity trade they have contributed
quite directly to an expansion of both
production and consumption of narcotics
over the past 20 years the mysteries the
alchemy of capitalism has thus
transformed the lead of repression into
the gold of stimulus after three u.s.
drug wars under presidents Nixon Reagan
and Bush global opium production rose
from 1,000 tonnes in 1970 to four
thousand two hundred tonnes in 1991 a
dramatic 420 percent increase due very
directly to these failed attempts at
prohibition the next factor for
detection over the past 40 years
government intelligence agencies
particularly the CIA have served as the
protectors of Southeast Asia's key drug
traffickers contributing to an initial
expansion of opium production that I
will describe as I move into my lecture
through an accident of history this
5,000 mile long Asian opium Zone from
Turkey to Thailand just happened to
parallel the border of China and the
Soviet Union making it a key southern
front of Cold War confrontation as the
CIA mounted operations in the opium Zone
probing the southern border of China and
the Soviet Union during the 40 years of
the Cold War it found that opium brokers
and warlords were the most effective of
it's possible covered action assets
surveying the steady increase in
America's drug problem since the end of
World War two
I can thus discern periodic surges in US
drug supply that coincide with CIA
covert operations in the drug zones thus
to understand the dynamics underlying
the golden triangles conquest of the
global heroin market our problem in this
lecture we must probe the modern history
of this peculiar commodity focusing on
our twin themes of protection and
prohibition let me begin then with the
colonial opium trade the modern opium
trade the rise of opium is a commodity
began to pick a date arbitrarily in 1773
when it's a date that lies as much as it
tells truth but nonetheless we've got a
move on 1773 when the British East India
Company through its Calcutta office took
direct control of the export of Indian
opium to China as the eastern air
company expanded its exports over the
next 75 years open became a major global
commodity giving this modern commerce in
this drug a scale and organizational
sophistication that distinguishes it
from its ancient and medieval forms
opium is folk pharmacopoeia opium as
item in Asian regional trade by 1780 the
East India Company had imposed a
centralized marketing system over the
Bengal opium industry that accelerated
the export of Indian opium to China from
7 d5 tons in 1776 to 3,000 to
hundred tonnes in 1815 leading trade
goods for the purchase of Chinese tea
British merchants used opium as a medium
for the manipulation of a complex
triangular trade between India China and
Europe that reach a remarkable volume of
20 million pounds sterling per leg by
the 1820s 22 million pounds worth of
Indian cotton and opium to Canton 20
million pounds worth of Chinese tea from
Canton to England 24 million pounds
worth of British finished goods to India
in 1842 in 1858 Britain fought two wars
along the China coast to rationalize and
improve this trade forcing the Chinese
Empire to open itself to unrestricted
opium imports speculating about the
probable impact of these legal opium
imports Karl Marx who for once got it
right described it in the pages of the
New York Daily Tribune on August 15 oh
sorry October 15th 1858 when he
commanded quote the Chinese government
will try a method recommended by
political and financial considerations
viz to legalize the cultivation of the
poppy in China
indeed Chinese officials began
encouraging local production and poppy
cultivation spread beyond the southwest
of China to nearly every every province
by 1880 China's leading opium producing
province at Wan in the southwest
harvested some 10,000 tons of raw opium
compared only 5,000 tons worth of opium
imported from India the scandal of
China's mass opium addiction prompted a
global attempt at prohibition of which
our contemporary drug wars are the
direct lineal descendant the global
prohibition movement was launched by
activist partisans denominations in the
1870s the global anti opium movement
scored its first victory in the
Philippines in 1906 when a colonial
Commission with an Episcopal missionary
Bishop as a member recommended the
prohibition of smoking opium in this
American colony becoming the first time
any American government had been a drug
almost simultaneously the British
Parliament passed a motion of the house
instructing Her Majesty's Indian
government to negotiate an end to its
opium exports to China
under such pressure deli and pay King
negotiated treaty prohibiting over a
period of 10 years Indian exports of
opium to China and China's domestic
production of opium meeting at Shanghai
in February 1909 at the world's first
international narcotics conference this
meeting in San Antonio is just one of
many that have followed upon this
Shanghai meeting the United States
Britain France China and other powers
agreed upon an agenda for the
International interdiction of opium
thereby launching our modern drug
diplomacy which continues until this
week slowed by the revolution of 1911
and subsequent political chaos later
Chinese government's tried with greater
and lesser sincerity to suppress opium
smoking China's attempt at prohibition
led by the 1930s through the dynamics of
this peculiar commodity to Shanghai's
rise of the world's leading producer of
illicit heroin and Shanghai's role as
the main supplier of New York City's
criminal syndicates let's turn now to
Southeast Asia lying astride the major
maritime routes between Calcutta and
Canton Southeast Asia was drawn into an
expanding Asian opium trade eventually
emerging as a significant secondary
market for both Indian and Chinese opium
production during the early 19th century
opium became a major factor in Southeast
Asia's economic growth both public and
private sectors reflecting and
reinforcing the region's ongoing
modernization by 1930 Southeast Asia had
a very profitable complex of legal State
opium monopolies the region in some had
6000 441 licensed opium dens serving 272
tonnes of opium to 542 thousand one
hundred registered smokers opium income
range from 14% of all tax revenues in
Siam to 58 percent in British Malaya in
no other region of the world did so many
governments promote mass opium
consumption with such unanimity of means
and moral certitude despite extensive
opium consumption during the decade
immediately preceding World War two it
is important for our purposes to note
Southeast Asia still remained an
insignificant opium producer in 1940
Southeast Asia harvested a total of only
fifteen point five tonnes fifteen and a
half tonnes in a region that today
produces over three thousand tonnes why
so little for world war two since India
supplied these government monopolies
with limitless low-cost opium Southeast
Asia government's had no reason to
encourage little coal evasion indeed
their profits came from an artificially
high price for the drug and they were
desperately concerned to extirpate
smuggling local production would have
complicated that task hence it was
discouraged
thus the sudden growth of the golden
triangles opium production is a postwar
phenomenon it occurs in the 1950s and
appears in retrospect a response to to
stimulate prohibition and protection
let's look at the Prohibition factor
responding to international pressures
drug diplomacy was marching apace
Southeast Asia's governments abolished
legal opium sales between 1950 and 1961
thereby creating an instant demand for
illicit opiates in Hong Kong and the
cities of Southeast Asia
the second factor protection the supply
for this illicit market created by
prohibition was generated by protection
an alliance of three intelligence
agencies ply American and nationalist
Chinese played a catalytic role in
promoting the production of raw opium
supplies on the shan plateau of northern
Burma in the 1950s during this decade
see a covered operations in northern
Burma fostered political alliances that
linked the poppy fields of bourbon Burma
with Southeast Asia's urban drug markets
after the collapse of the nationalist
Chinese government in 1949 some of its
forces fled across the border into Burma
I like to think in the map as the
collapse of China disgorging the
nationalist forces in two directions
Southeast to Taiwan where they remain
and Southwest's across the border of
Yunnan into northern Burma the CIA
acting under instructions of President
Harry Truman to open eyes
second front in the Korean War used its
Air Logistics and armed support to
transform the 14,000 ragtag remnants of
the nationalist Chinese forces in
northeastern Burma into a covered Action
Army arming and supplying them for three
at least three invasions of southwestern
China in 1950 and 51 these invasions
were repulsed with heavy casualties they
were covered action joke the nationalist
troops camped along the border after
this debacle for another decade turning
to opium trading to finance their
operations as CIA support dwindled
forcing local hill tribes to produce
opium through a mix of paramilitary
coercion and market incentives the
nationalist troops supervised over a
massive increase of poppy cultivation on
the Shan plateau after a combined
operation by the People's Liberation
Army of China and the Burmese army
evicted the nationalist forces from
their bases in northeastern Burma in
1961 the same nationalist forces
established new base camps just across
the border in Thailand and there they
remained today playing a major role in
the Shan States opium trade 40 years
after the CIA installed them in the
region even after the CIA ended covered
operations in this region in 1975 its
former assets the KMT and the reigning
heroin King kun saw maintain control of
what had become well established opium
production systems processing ever
larger quantities for the world market
let's turn to the case study of
Indochina during the Vietnam War era
after abolition of the opium monopoly in
1950 that French opium monopoly that
produced 15% of government revenues
French military intelligence imposed a
centralized covert control over an
illicit drug traffic that linked the
Hmong poppy fields of northern Laos with
the opium dens of Saigon when America
replaced the French in Vietnam the CIA
fell heir to these covert action
alliances and their indirect involvement
in opium trading but the CIA did not
suffer the same financial imperatives
that had forced the French into a direct
control over the traffic the CIA
involvement remained in direct
from 1961 to 1970 for the CIA maintained
an army of 30,000 Hmong tribesmen in the
mountains of northern Laos a secret war
the required CIA support for the tribes
main cash crop opium
although the agency did not profit
directly from the opium trade the combat
strength of its secret army was
nonetheless integrated with the Laotian
opium trade why the answer lies in the
CIA's doctrine of indirect intervention
and its consequence reliance upon the
influence of local warlords local
military leaders in the case of Laos the
CIA's reliance upon a Hmong leader named
major bang pal
the CIA sent in covert action cadre to
laos on a ratio of about one american
agent for every 1,000 hmong hill tribe
guerrillas giving the agency at best and
indirect control that made it dependent
upon a local ally a local political
broker to mobilize that tribe for
guerrilla warfare using its formidable
airpower the CIA gave its chosen client
vang pal
control over air drops of rice into the
Hmong villages and the shipment the air
shipment of opium out of those hmong
village 'as with his chokehold over
these two key commodities in the Hmong
household economy opium and rice major
vang Pao was transformed from a minor
office officer of low traditional status
into a tribal warrior who could and did
extract boy soldiers from the Hmong
villages for slaughter in an endless war
which the Hmong could never win since
opium trading reinforced vang Pao's
Authority the CIA found it convenient to
tolerate the traffic the CIA's Paulette
policy of tolerance towards its Laotian
allies did not change even in 1968-69
when they began producing heroin to
supply American combat forces fighting
in South Vietnam in 1968-69 the CIA's
Laotian clients including general vang
pal and the commander of the Royal Army
General Erwin rata cone brought in
chemists Chinese chemists from Hong Kong
to open a cluster of heroin laboratories
in the Tri border region where Burma
Thailand and Laos converge the CIA
turned a blind eye to general wounds her
own lab which was then the world's
largest since he provided the military
mental that legitimated the CIA's
control and operation of a secret army
in a supposedly neutralist nation all
this heroin was smuggled south and South
Vietnam for sale to American GIs by 1971
according to a later White House survey
34 percent of all US combat forces in
South Vietnam were addicted to this
heroin if we accept this figure this
White House figure that 34 percent of US
soldiers in South Vietnam were heroin
users by 1971 then there were more
American heroin addicts in Indochina
than in the United States itself and all
of these Indochina addicts were supplied
by our own allies let's turn now to
Southeast Asia's moved to the world
market its ultimate conquest of the
global heroin trade as American troops
began withdrawing from Vietnam in 1972
President Nixon inadvertently created a
new market for Southeast Asian heroin by
declaring war on drugs in the
Mediterranean as the grandmother of the
three drug wars the United States has
fought over the past 20 years
Nixon's effort commands our attention
despite a short-term victory in this
drug war war in Turkey there were two
long-term consequences of this drug war
one increased global opium production
two increased global heroin consumption
the Nixon drug war at that time had a
positively seductive appeal you may have
seen gene Hackman's wonderful movies
French Connection 1 & 2 some of your
younger generation have even heard of
these movies much less see now I keep
forgetting every year they're younger
it's frightening Lee young they're now
born before the I mean after the Vietnam
War even started this is all at her
memory something their fathers did at
the time the appeal of the drug war was
was quite understandable in the United
States American police were chasing
drugs around the street why not go to
the source
the source at that time was remarkably
limited and the traffic was very tightly
structured in Turkey itself there were
opium farmers registered with the turkey
Turkish government producing opium for
legitimate pharmaceutical exports
however these same farmers took an extra
scraping from the poppies and diverted
this to the illicit market which crossed
the Mediterranean to Marseilles or
Corsican syndicates manufactured that
raw opium into heroin and then just like
in the movies it transited across the
Atlantic entering the United States
through organized crime families based
in Montreal arriving in New York where
the five families of New York
distributed in the New York metropolitan
area and to a lesser extent across the
country for a quarter century from the
late 1940s until Nixon's drug war the
drug trade operated in this very
predictable tightly structured manner
the appeal there was therefore was
enormous wipe out the entire traffic
clean up heroin off the streets closed
down the Marseilles here on labs by
going to the Anatolian plateau the
fighting a war and wiping it out and it
was a wonderful a brilliant victory it
was the kind of victory that George Bush
wouldn't even aspire to today it was a
total 100% wipe out eradication of
Turkish opium production Turkey was
living under the shadow of the Russian
bear the Cold War was its height Turkey
was a poor Naoto Ally we called they
answered it was either NATO the arms and
the Alliance or get rid of the drugs and
by the by here's thirty five million
dollars in aid to to make it palatable
so the Turkish government weighed up the
NATO alliance against the interests of a
number of peasant opium farmers in this
small region of the country and guess
what they decided that the peasants of
Anatolia would pay the price and they
wiped out the open market and totally
destroyed it the Marseilles Heron Labs
went dry and it looked like a great
victory by mid 1970 the street price of
heroin in New York had tripled and
purity had dropped by half strong
indicators of a serious shortage on the
streets in New York ironically President
Nixon's victory on turkeys Anatolian
plateau increased global drug demand
unleashing unpredicted market forces
that would ultimately expand
production and consumption of illicit
narcotics why the Nixon drug war rested
on the premised that Turkey was an
isolated opium producer that could be
eliminated through a strong enforcement
effort in effect by bringing the blunt
baton of law enforcement down upon a
compact Scoble commodity trade the Nixon
administration unleashed market forces
they did not grasp at the time Turkey
was in fact a minor producer of just
seven 7.0 percent of the world's illicit
opium supply a minor producer that lay
at the westernmost extremity of a near
continuous opium zone that stretched for
5000 miles along the mountain rim of
Asia through Iran Afghanistan Pakistan
Burma Thailand Laos responding to the
market stimulus of Turkish eradication
shortfall in supply raised price kriti
incentive for increased production the
Chinese syndicates of Southeast Asia
began exporting their surplus heroin to
America in effect following the gi's
home by early 1975 Southeast Asia's
share of the u.s. heroin market had
doubled to 22% the Nixon administration
reacted again I've done interviews with
agents who can recall Nixon aid Eagle
crow pulling them by the lapel to the
map pointing to Thailand and say don't
get me opium caravans and indeed they
did the Nixon administration dispatched
a firebreak team of 30 US Drug
Enforcement ministration agents to
Bangkok in 1973-74
armed with a war chest of 12 million
dollars to cut the flow of Thai heroin
to the United States armed with these
funds the Bangkok DEA began making
substantial seizures of us-bound heroin
in cooperation with PI police forces
creating a kind of de-facto customs
barrier on the export of Southeast Asia
heroin to United States ship Aquila to
America you run a very good chance of it
getting seized your courier picked up
your operettas a mesh in the courts
there began to be a very high threshold
of cost and pain
exporting drugs the United States thus
by the end of 1975 Southeast Asia share
of the US market had dropped only eight
percent based on chemical testing of
Street samples from across the country
it was again another victory but a
victory that had a paradoxical
unpredicted reaction in the market since
the DEA did not eradicate opium
cultivation on the shan plateau or
closed the her own refineries in
northern thailand its seizures simply
erected this customs shield deflecting
exports from the United States to other
markets unable to export to the United
States Southeast Asian syndicates began
exporting to Europe and Australia which
then had almost no heroin addiction
let's look at the statistics from the
1970s to see how suddenly there is an
influx of Southeast Asian herand very
dramatic and discernible in these two
new markets total european seizures of
southeast asian number three heroin
jumped from 22 pounds in 1972 to 873
pounds in 1978 in the netherlands
estimated addict population increased
from 800 in 1970 to some 10,000 by 1975
in West Germany
the only real hard index of consumption
in the drug trade began to appear very
dramatically dress deaths from heroin
overdoses increased from 9 in 1969 to
623 a decade later
similarly in Australia narcotics arrest
in the state of New South Wales the
country's premier heroin market
increased fivefold from 173 in 1972 -
909 in 1977 although Nixon's drug war
the stimulated the global market its
impact on the US domestic demand was
more ambiguous I don't know whether it
worked here or not I don't know if it
was the war that worked or other factors
let's think about it a bit in the late
1970s every indicator after the Nixon
drug war pointed to a marked decline in
u.s. heroin supply the estimated number
of heroine addicts dropped from 500,000
to 200,000 united states that's
debatable the government always
fudges those figures they virtually it's
just lizard a man that approaches lying
heroin purity however declined markedly
in New York City that's oh that's that's
discernible and testable that's lab
results
heroin price that's police reports
that's pretty reliable that went up our
key indicators addicts down purity down
price up that means short supply why the
decline why the shortfall in supply
could be the drug war can't say but
maybe there was another factor maybe our
factors of prohibition and protection or
operating even at this period perhaps
Nixon's drug war may have actually
succeeded interrupt disrupting the flow
of drugs the United States let's look at
it after Southeast Asia was blocked
Turkey was wiped Mexico came in to fill
the void although Mexico share of the
u.s. her own market jumped from 40
percent in 1972 to a remarkable 89
percent in 1975 to meet shortages in the
market from this process I've described
Mexico's erratic supply of a crude
number three heroin somehow failed to
meet US demand in the same way that
Europe or South East Asian pure number
four heroin had maybe our factors of
prohibition and protection were the
dominant factors perhaps President
Carter's ban on major CIA covert
operations from 1976 to 1978 may have
removed the protection that the drug
lords seemed required
you remember those events Nixon Saturday
night massacre of eight hundred covered
Action Aid agents were given their pink
slips like they were used car dealers in
the midst of a recession I mean just
throwing the street without any dignity
boy they got even too late 1970s a
general Admiral Stansfield Turner
cashier at eight hundred covered action
operatives I don't know the person I
stayed off the table Maya it's not on
the paper I don't remember it so I
didn't write it down I have to look at
him similarly President Carter's
abandonment of an aggressive drug war
policy of prohibition he didn't fight
many drug wars little operation in
Mexico not much effect maybe the
abandonment of this drug war policy of a
prohibition may have removed that market
stimulus
whatever the factors operating in the
late 1970s to depress America's her own
consumption clearly the factors of
prohibition and protection operated in
the 1980s to revitalize the trade let's
look at the heroin boom of the 1980s
whatever cause of the decline in the
1970s prohibition and protection again
played a role I would argue a key role
in the revival of us heroine consumption
in the 1980s let's turn out not to
Southeast Asia but to Southwest Asia not
to the Golden Triangle as it's known in
the Argo drug law enforcement but they
were really reaching for a catchy cliche
here to the golden Crescent of Southwest
Asia in 1980-81 heroin production in
Southwest Asia Afghanistan and Pakistan
suddenly expanded to fill gaps in the
global market
although Pakistan and Afghanistan had
zero heroin production the mid-1970s and
that is absolutely clear by 1981
Pakistan had become the world's largest
heroin producer now let's look at the
facts of the matter okay
I've gotten a hold of through Freedom of
Information the reports in the mid-1970s
by the former CIA director Richard Helms
who was ambassador to Iran and he kept a
very close eye on the drug trade in Iran
and he documented very clearly that
there was no regional heroin trade there
was a minor seizure picked up in Germany
and ambassador Helms using his skills
analyzed and reported at length
concluding that this region had no her
own consumption
heroin production and no heroine
consumption so this is a region that's
an opium producer so in the mid 1970s
but is not a heroin consumer or producer
in 1981 however the US Attorney General
announced that Pakistan was now the
source of 60% 6o percent of the u.s.
heroin supply across Europe Pakistani
heroin captured an even larger share of
local market to the European market by
this time being even larger than our own
US market for heroin and moreover the
situation in Pakistan was even more
dramatic in 1979 Pakistan had zero
heroin addicts in 1980 Pakistan had 5000
heroin addicts and in nineteen
85 Pakistan according to Pakistan
official government statistics had
1,200,000 heroin addicts now why why did
Pakistan emerge within the space of 2
years as the preeminent param producer
the center of the global heroine trade
from a position of non participation it
all comes down to the Afghan operation
the largest longest covered operation
fought by our US Central Intelligence
Agency at the United State after the
Soviet Union began pressing in to
Afghanistan and ultimately invading in
December of 1979 the white house under
Carter assigned the CIA to mount a major
operation to support the Afghan
resistance to Soviet pressure and
ultimately invasion and occupation
working through Pakistan's
inter-services intelligence aid agency
the CIA began supplying covert arms and
financed the Afghan forces that
ultimately exceeded two billion dollars
as they gain control over liberated
zones inside Afghanistan the Afghan
guerillas required that its supporters
grow opium to support the resistance
paying a portion of their crop in tax to
the Mujahideen resistance forces using
CIA and is eye protection the Pakistan
military and Afghan resistant resistence
open heroin labs on the border of the
northwest frontier of Pakistan and
Afghanistan according to the Washington
Post page 1 of may 1991 among the
leading heroine manufacturers during
this period was go boudin Hekmatyar then
but foreign minister in the Afghan
interim government and the Afghan leader
who received something like half of the
two billion dollars in covered arms at
the United States shipped to Pakistan
Peck match our was our guy he was the
one we picked we elevated him from utter
obscurity we made him the most powerful
the moja Dean we gave him a billion
dollars in arms and he was among the
major heroin manufacturers that was
responsible for this transformation of
Pakistan during this decade of operation
the Drug Enforcement ministration post
in Pakistan made no arrests or seizures
participated in no significant arrests
or seizures now was it hard you can say
maybe it's hard it wasn't hard and
an anecdote here well-known
well-documented mid-1980s an African
Pakistani courier was picked up in Oslo
and he was caught with a shipment of
heroin part of this expansion of
Pakistan into global markets Norwegian
police explained to him the prison term
that he would like you to face an armed
with the information that this
trafficker supplied one oslo detective
one cop from norway flew to Islamabad
and began investigating he man an
investigation and he ultimately brought
down put it behind bars a man who was
the vice president of a major bank in
Pakistan who was the surrogate son of
the dictator of Pakistan General Zia and
who was the personal banker an intimate
of General Zia one Norwegian cop not a
country with a lot of clout in South
Asia brought down the surrogate son of
the dictator of Pakistan we had 17 DEA
agents based in Islamabad during this
entire period we had clout in this
region we brought down nobody we busted
nobody we seized nothing
design accident I don't know what the
end of the Cold War it seems that the
United States Soviet disengagement from
Afghanistan which started just last
month it's 28 days old my little
worsening of the drug situation once the
Soviet foreign minister and our own
Secretary of State announced the
termination of covered aid to their
respective clients Afghan guerillas
appeared to begin carpeting the slopes
of Afghanistan with puppy seeds the UN
estimates are that in the spring of 1992
the world will see an opium crop the
like of which it hasn't seen since
southwestern China in the late 19th
century the 1990 and according the US
State Department the world's total
illicit opium supply in 1991 was four
thousand tonnes UN sources are
estimating informally that this year
Afghanistan is going to produced
something close to four thousand tonnes
itself Afghanistan is gonna double the
world's heroin supply this year if
correct the Afghan crop would of course
seed Southeast Asia's doubling the
supply of our own
more overreacted the depressed price of
cocaine the Colombian cartels of recent
introduced opium cultivation into the
northern reaches of the Andes if the
cartels do succeed in marketing heroin
in the United States with the same
success that they have cocaine the
prospects for an expansion in the US
narcotics traffic and combinations not
even imagined or imaginable are quite
distinct
let me now reflect upon the policy
implications of what I've said this
history lesson instead of the drug war
with its doomed attempt at total
eradication of drug use
there are several policy alternatives
the United States could adopt to
recognize if you will the complex
character of heroin as a commodity let
me propose then that somewhere between
the poles of unrestrained repression
epitomized by our drug wars and
legalization the alternative that were
often offered we might attempt a new
policy called regulation carefully
gauging each element in our enforcement
strategy for its impact on this complex
commodity trade instead of simply
kicking down the doors in America or
Bolivia we might actually think about
what we're doing and it's probable
impact among the elements in this
putative policy of regulation would be
some of the following and I offer them
very tentatively first of all the CIA
elimination of protection at the end of
the Cold War we should finally finally
be able to end the agency's protection
for traffickers thus holding the
periodic surges of narcotics supply from
these protected and connected drug lords
second the DEA by forcing the DEA to
abandon its unreflecting buy-and-bust
approach the US government can restrain
the DEA from making the matters worse
for twenty years now the DEA has been
kicking down the doors in bolivian
colombian turkey now ply and bust
approach which has done all it's done I
argue is simply stimulate increased
production of cocaine heroin I think
it's time that we brought an end to this
after abandoning the DA's bilateral
enforcement effort we can shift a
portion of our international
interdiction funds to the United Nations
long term multilateral cop substitution
efforts they may not work but they
probably don't make the matters
realizing that enforcement serves as an
informal customs barrier we should
during this period maintain our
addiction interdiction effort at the
borders to avoid the flood of drugs that
would allow supply to pursue demand on
our streets if we drop our enforcement
effort entirely enforcement comprising a
kind of informal custom shields mean
that we allow ourselves for something
akin to dumping in the international
drug trade we would have supplies the
chase demand finally and ultimately I
think our solution must rely at the
level of demand reduction I like many
people that study the international drug
trade have come to this conclusion it's
a morass it's hopeless the variables the
factors out there are unknowable and
unmanageable we must realize that there
is thus no supply side solution to the
drug problem the entire drug war effort
doesn't work can't work won't work
we must divert the 70% of the current
drug war budget of 11 billion dollars
from repression to education and
treatment ultimately we must realize
that there is no quick fix to the drug
problem through this policy of
regulation we can stop the American
state from using its considerable power
to compound the problem then we can slow
and stabilize domestic drug use working
over the long term for a gradual
amelioration of this difficult problem
thank you
[Applause]
sure the situation Burma has gotten very
complex the dramatic event which has
been documented by Berto Lintner in his
books and in his pages for Eastern
Economic Review and it's wonderful
reportage absolutely superb stuff and I
committed your attention has been the
collapse of the Communist Party of Burma
which emerged in particularly coking
state in northeastern Burma as the
number one one of the number one of the
leading probably the most important
opium collector and heroin manufacturer
and the collapse of the communist party
of Burma through internal struggle
partly ethnic partly generational led to
a breakup of a politically based
resistance which was controlling a
commodity in trying to apply it to the
revolution leading to a the residual
forces becoming just simply ethnic
warlords like all the rest allowing the
Burmese state much more capacity to
manipulate and control the situation in
northeastern Burma so the Burmese state
has become in fact a much more important
print protector of the traffic in
northeastern Burma than ever has been
before it always been a player able to
use its control over roads in certain
key towns access to to chemicals and
cash and financial services to favor the
drug lords but now the breakup of the
CPB and the failure of any of the other
ethnic rebels to really gain the kind of
power the CPB had has placed the Burmese
state now in a a very important position
in the United States government that's
for some reason been unwilling to kind
of grasp the fact that the that the the
Burmese state is in fact the major
protector and probably the most
important single principal factor in the
heroin trade and it's now been placed in
a visible position where it goes in and
you know there are little rituals are
being connected all over northeastern
Burma where American Drug Enforcement
agents and diplomats are going into the
area and you know continue looking at
possible pilot aid programs in areas
that are major parent production zones
so it's a situation that's changed very
dramatically the other thing that's
happened
- is as China's become more free market
the adjacent area of China has lost the
strict military and market controls
that's made it immune to trafficking so
the traffic in northeastern Burma is
spilling across the border into China
one of the major trafficking routes out
of northern Burma which which
facilitates the the shift of the heroin
trade from the Thai border up into
coking state all right right very fairly
deep into the Shan States has been the
fact that the major trafficking route
now out of the Shan states of
northeastern Burma is across southern
China into Hong Kong directly all right
by truck so you don't to go down through
Bangkok anymore that old access to the
Birman of Bangkok Road is gone and this
parallel is another very dramatic change
as well one I didn't canvass in my talk
which is very important the whole Afghan
operation did a number of other things
that I couldn't discuss in the talk as
the Soviet Army suffered a kind of
morale crisis akin to the American army
in Vietnam this heroin this heroin that
was being produced across the border for
the world market in the Northwest
Frontier Pakistan also moved into
Afghanistan itself and there developed
within the ranks of the Red Army in
Afghanistan of an undocumented but we
believed to be a very substantial
hearing abuse problem and the
soviet-afghan vets who are rather like
our own Vietnam vets they feel very kin
one to the other you know kind of cannon
fodder and a cold war that's been
forgotten by their own state devoid of
social services they've gone back to
Leningrad and Moscow there they're using
heroin in phenomenal quantities
moreover the technology has moved across
into the new Nally liberated Islamic
states which have the same ethnicity the
same geography the same economics
they're not producing illicit heroin
with the technology that they've brought
from Pakistan Afghanistan they're
producing heroin for the Leningrad
Moscow markets so the whole thing has
really gotten really complicated and the
possibility of you know so via in an
estate becomes short on cash and the
Islamic sorry the former Soviet states
Russia and these Islamic Republic's
becoming major principles in the drug
traders it's quite real producing
unperson and supplies and
utterly moving any possibility of
controlling a regulating international
the international production and flow of
drugs the thrust of my talk why do
people take drugs
nobody knows okay and that's that's
something that there's a that's the one
vast industry in the United States the
treatment industry and it's very
substantial and they don't know they
really basically don't know historically
it's very little probe we can document
the history of the addiction dr. David
must oh yeah lieutenant wonderful job
his book the American disease but not
even he really fully explains why it
happened I tend to think I my theory and
I put it forward in the introduction of
my book and a type of that affords only
presumption Stevens stated maybe it's
even stupid but but just to demonstrate
the rudimentary nature of why one can
document how wanna fire I think it's a
part of a deep-seated social change that
occurs a fundamental change in the
attitude towards diet and body and time
that occurs in the West as we urbanized
in the nineteenth century you know if I
think this is true from the hip analysis
they removed from it from small-scale
operations in farm and factory artisan
level work in which the the rhythm and
the regimentation of work was was far
less structure than it became in the
factories in the nineteenth century if
you're worried everybody has a certain
rhythm to their lives at the end we all
know where a night person or a day
person a morning person when you became
a factory worker in
the United States room in the Midlands
in England you no longer controlled your
daily rhythm these machines were citadel
versed at a very high pace and during
the 12 hours of the working day these
exhale accelerated machines demanded
peak performance and they took their
they punished workers for non
achievement with with a horrific level
of industrial accidents
you didn't pay attention to machine it
would take your hand or your arm away
from you so workers diet changed and if
you think of the what happened we I
think is that people are taking an
exotic stimulants to artificially
accelerate their body rhythms during
this long working day the classic
English breakfast which we can document
an increased per capita consumption is
one of protein because the diet changes
from mill grains in the 18th century to
one of protein and exotic stimulants
meat eggs eggs are imported from China
frozen then a cup of tea with sugar all
right
okay these are sugars glucose energy tea
caffeine stimulus protein for a sense of
a sudden rush of productive energy and
then tea breaks in the factory that's
the one breaking yet the tea breaks for
more caffeine to stimulate so then you
get workers tea in England coffee in
America artificially raising their body
rhythms during the day and then I think
what's going on is we learn to control
our bodies you're going to artificially
stimulate and alter our moods with these
drugs we then use narcotics and
particularly okay now there's also a
gender factor to which is complex as
well that alcohol abuse expands enormous
Lee in the nineteenth century hence the
temperance movement and the prohibition
of drugs is simply an extension of the
temperance movement gets alcohol now
there was a gender a very strict
division gender-based division of
substance abuse the nineteenth century
essentially women were banned from
public alcohol consumption the pubs of
England America Australia the aunts the
bars of America these were male only
means we're socially sanctioned alcohol
abuse was practiced and alcohol was
abused in these settings women were not
given access to that was considered
improper so what you get that in sense
is in the domestic sphere and the vector
of administering and nurturing you get
the abuse of pharmaceutical or patent
medicine narcotics and we have all kinds
of literary evidence of this Eugene
O'Neill's play long day's turning
tonight married Tyrone is administered
morphine by the doctor that's duty
money's on the mother to kill a
mockingbirds which is here there's a
there's a woman opium addict and and
that that is the characteristic pattern
it's female middle class often narcotic
abusers and they get into it I think
because the pharmaceutical companies are
marketing these things at a nurturing
metaphor spotting them at children and
children's diseases won't admit anything
that appears to be the vector and so
that makes another plunk is that this
commodity trait when I said interval
first of all lifestyles I mean I think
it's far more fundamentally ingrained
our diet our attitudes towards health
and body the way we conceptualized what
we do to our body that's an unexplored
terrain
brilliantly some the cocaine perfect
it applies absolutely tort protection
that's the whole Senator Kerry's hearing
into the contrast that's protection
we've only begun to probe the dynamics
of protection between CIA Oliver North's
Network all that stuff and the Contras
and that's a yeah that's a very complex
and controversial area but Senator Kerry
documented clearly instances of
protection guns down
unlicensed flights bringing cocaine up
the United States okay
prohibition one percent 100 percent
Bolivia in the early 1980s the cocaine
production was concentrated in the
western part of the country around the
capital the united states government
went into Bolivia with aid to local
police forces mobilized a massive crop
eradication effort that was quite
successful
simply push coca into the fastness of
eastern Brazil ultimately into the msre
of eastern Bolivia and then into the
Amazon basin of Western Brazil where
it's lodged now much larger area much
bigger crop that dynamic has been
demonstrated time and time again up and
down the Andes we've cracked down on the
Colombian cartel with some successes
said well the processing is simply
pushed back into the epilogue the valley
of Peru Ecuador is now moving in it's a
dynamic trade the market responds
prohibition and protection I think are
illuminating concepts to apply to the
latin-american cocaine trade
I mean let me comment on that Indonesia
actually is distinctive in Southeast
Asia for the high love of indigenous
opium consumption during the colonial
period it's the one part of Southeast
Asia where in fact the non Chinese
element of consumption was predominant
and and very important the work done on
the vo sea trade between Bengal and Java
established that the major one the major
commodities that animated the vo sea
trade in 17th century Java out of
Batavia was opium the east india company
imported bengali opium into java and
distributed it and placing it into sort
of sending into the indigenous marketing
systems moreover by the late 17th
century in excess of 30% of all the
cargos leavin Batavia on inter Asian
commerce were opium for reax port to the
archipelago and to china the 19th and
19th century the Dutch opium regime
which has been wonderfully studied by
dr. James Rush now of Arizona State
University thank God at long last
gotten him back in the Academy here he
established the scale and significance
of this and he's outlined in his book
all kinds of very profitable avenues for
inquiry the opium regime was enormous ly
powerful in it supervised din formerly a
very large legal and illicit traffic
just the quantities that rushed
describes you know from Bali alone in
one year one smuggling gang bring in
forty tons of illicit opium to Eastern
Java this was a trade that was
phenomenally large robert crib of now i
think worse rama these days somewhere in
australia
yeah he's documented that the major
source of Finance for the Indonesian
Revolution came from their expropriation
of the Dutch colonial opium trade so
this is a topic whose import in
Indonesia's political economy we only
began to understand moreover I think if
we moved into the study of sort of you
know the the actual life it was it was
lived on the fringes of the culture
system in Java the culture system was
important because it generated the cash
income which allowed peasants to buy
opium it turned out that there was a
whole network that rushed documents of
opium police opium dens brothels music
halls a kind of netherworld in Java a
kind of free world where the opium
police arbitrarily picked up people
arrested petty traffickers didn't arrest
exercised a whole complex system of
social control interfacing with the
commodity so they social life has lived
in Indonesia is integrated with this
illicit come out in ways that we've only
begun to understand it's a very
important topic
now the Republic after the Revolution
extirpated the trade it disappeared very
quickly and because Indonesia was an
insular country it had natural natural
boundary that could keep it a apart from
Southeast Asia Commerce and try opium
which was confined largely to the
mainland so Indonesia drops out of the
trade after 1950 we're only beginning
now I think and I'm not an expert on
this at all so this is uninformed people
only beginning now to fully grasp the
complex matrix of policy between US and
Pakistan in the 1980s it involves some
of the following components our first of
all for our purpose the question is why
the United States adopt such a tolerant
posture towards Pakistani heroin
trafficking why do we let them and
basically have our market why don't we
not interfere
why didn't we not bring down the
traffickers the way the Norwegian police
did and those traffickers were very
operating a very high level and
Pakistani society alright the the
complex elements of the equation
involved was first of all one the
overarching issue during this period was
the covered war the cover war produced
the bank BCCI
our bank whose tendrils were only
beginning to discover this is a
Pakistani bank it was being used as the
major conduit for CIA money into
Pakistan to support the merger Dean we
don't know yet we know that the BCCI was
was moving cocaine money in the
Caribbean one thing that has not been
probed and there's no intention to
probably cuz I don't think the Pakistani
government's gonna ever let it happen is
what BCCI was doing
for Pakistan's bid for preeminence in
the heroin trade there's there's one
thing that's very clear in the traffic
in narcotics you cannot send out your
drug if you can't get your dollars back
you've got to have very elaborate
financial services for what is a very
complex commerce just imagine trying to
move say two million dollars in your car
you know I mean you know yeah
money management I mean like you know
money management is
big industry you cannot operate a major
global commodity trade without a complex
elaborate system of financial support
services so you're gonna tell me that
there's no relationship between
Pakistan's rise in the early 1980s as
the world's major heroin exporter and
BCCI's parallel rise is that the biggest
bank in the third world I think there's
some very interesting highs all right so
that's that's one part of it another
part of the puzzle again utterly
unproved is the backdoor to Iran we all
know that during the 1980s for complex
reasons that we're only beginning to
discover the Reagan administration was
shipping arms to Iran and was looking
for a number of avenues to get the arms
to Iran well think of it right on the
Iranian eastern border we've got a two
billion dollar covered arm supply
operation and so far Congress has only
begun to probe that drawer that back
door to Iran I think and Larry
lipschultz written in writing in the
forest and Economic Review The Times of
India has argued that one of the key
pieces in the narcotics puzzle is the
fact that that the Pakistani government
Pakistani military intelligence was in
fact allowing the diversion of arms from
the moocher Deen to Iran as a part of
the IRA as part of this whole
iran-contra operation and that then gave
general Xia's regime extraordinary
leverage part of the leverage which had
tolerated
alright the drug trade and then the
nuclear factor in the equation why
didn't the US press Pakistan on the
nuclear issue again we have to put that
lack of pressure on that issue and the
drug issue against the other sides of
the equation the opening of strategic
facilities for us motive operations in
Pakistan this intelligence angle the
back door to Iran angle the supply for
the meridian so it's a complex array but
so far in this society we've only begun
to probe them which is very interesting
and very revealing and then also the
element of personal relations William
Casey's very close intimate relationship
for general zia the CIA director was
very close to General Zia he was the the
Reagan administration's top man for
access there was a very important
channel there and mr. Casey's
multifaceted capacity to manipulate the
society of something
US Congress is gonna be hopefully be
telling us about it visa vie the 1980
election so we're not only looking at us
Pakistan relations not only looking at
the drug trade we're also looking very
importantly and this is a point I guess
I want to end on okay we share far more
at the end of the Cold War with the
peoples of Romania East Germany in the
Soviet Union than we might realize just
as they now are beginning to probe the
pervasive influence of the secure today
the Stasi and the KGB in their societies
it's time for us to begin probing how
our instrument our counterpart
subterranean covered action agency the
CIA influenced our society during the
long years of the Cold War we are just
in this society victims of this national
security establishment and most visibly
in the area of drugs in the same way in
a more direct and even more unpleasant
way the peoples of Eastern Europe were
victims of their own security agencies
during the Cold War and I think just as
those people very courageously have
begun to attack those agencies which are
inimical to individual freedom in their
societies individual freedom and
expression I think it is time for us to
begin investigating and pursuing the
influence of our national security
establishment it's time for us to break
it down and reclaim our civil liberties
reclaim full control over our government
thank you
[Applause]